1. Install Prerequisites:

Before starting, make sure you have the following installed on your machine:

    Node.js (which comes with npm): You can download it from Node.js official website.
    Git: Download it from Git official website.

To verify if they are installed, run the following commands in your terminal or command prompt:

bash

node -v
npm -v
git --version

2. Clone the Repository:

Open your terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory where you want to clone the repository. Then, run the following command:

bash

git clone https://github.com/areebkanth/rick-and-morty-react-app.git

3. Navigate to the Project Directory:

After cloning the repository, navigate to the project folder:

bash

cd rick-and-morty-react-app

4. Install Dependencies:

The project uses npm (Node Package Manager) to manage dependencies. Run the following command to install all the necessary dependencies listed in package.json:

bash

npm install

This command will create a node_modules folder in your project directory, containing all the dependencies.
5. Start the Development Server:

To run the React application locally, start the development server using:

bash

npm start

This command will start the development server, and you should see output similar to this:

arduino

Compiled successfully!

You can now view rick-and-morty-react-app in the browser.

  Local:            http://localhost:3000
  On Your Network:  http://192.168.x.x:3000

6. Open the Application in Your Browser:

Once the development server is running, open your web browser and navigate to:

arduino

http://localhost:3000

You should see your Rick and Morty React application running. You can interact with it, test its features (search, filter, sort), and browse the character list.
7. Stop the Development Server:

To stop the server, go back to your terminal or command prompt and press Ctrl + C.
8. Building the Application for Production (Optional):

If you want to build the application for production (optimized and ready to deploy), run:

bash

npm run build

This command will create a build folder containing all the optimized files you need to deploy.
9. Deploying to GitHub Pages (Optional):

If you want to deploy your application to GitHub Pages or any other hosting platform, follow their specific instructions for deployment.
